Hello again, you multifaceted go to people in this video, we don't look at the joys of the animation
tree now animation player in Godchaux is really quite powerful.
We can animate any property.
We can make position.
We can animate color.
We can animates this ability.
We can even bring in things like Kifri.
Is Puzder the animation?
But what if we want to blend from one animation to another?
What we want to do is animate the p.c when it moves and have the p.c move from one animation to another
smoothly.
We don't want run, run, run, suddenly.
Stop.
We want run.
Run.
Slow down.
Stop.
Speed up.
Run.
To do that, we set up an animation tree.
So I'm a jumper to go.
I'm going to notice that this little person is sinking into the floor and raise them up.
It snap and just bring your feet up to the floor.
Much better.
OK, let's open the placing within the placing.
We want to go to the armature animation tree has to point to an animation.
Suddenly it's the root of the armature ad with control a animation tree.
I'm not going to use animation tree player because that's deprecated.
That's an older version.
Animation, trees, what we want.
And immediately we can see a couple of issues.
The first is it wants a tree root and the second is it wants an animation player.
Let's start with the animation player.
We need to assign it to this one.
It now knows what animations it has access to.
Now, the tree root, what kind of animation tree do we want?
There's a few things we do.
We just have a simple you can play this animation.
We can have a blend space, which is a little bit complicated if what we're doing.
But it's all kinds of cool.
We can have a blend tree and we can even have a state machine.
We can program in a state machine as a visual node and we'll get here.
That's what we're doing.
We're doing a blend tree.
This is a visual representation of our animations.
Before we go any further, let's make it active.
And you notice that hasn't done anything, that's because he's our output and nothing's happening.
Let's add in an animation and a right click on the space click animation, given her name and another
person still film reel to pick the available animations, all of which are the ones inside the animation
plan.
Let's pick idle animal, drag the node to connect it.
And we have an idle animation.
OK, so so far, that's just an idle animation.
Let's bring in another animation, right clicking And I'm going to call this run and I'm a clip the
film.
I come and pick run.
Now, I can't drag this one in here because it's already something in there.
So instead, I'm gonna drag from output and just break that connection.
That's right.
Click here and add a blend, too, and I'll explain what that is.
The second blush dragon in and blende like.
So I connect that the output and then drag this slider.
So we don't hit.
OK, let's take a moment to talk about what's happening here.
I can right click and add a few different ones.
The ones we care about right now are these blend modes.
You can learn about the others by right.
Clicking and going to open documentation.
All right.
There's all kinds of fun things you can do here.
But for the purposes of our game, let's focus on what needs to happen.
So let's talk about animation, tree blend modes.
We have a blend to blend two takes animation zero and animation one.
From that we can slide between them.
Blend three is a little different.
Blend three has negative one zero and positive one.
And we can slide somewhere between those values.
What we can't do is have a blend between negative one and positive one that doesn't go through zero
or we have a blend four.
This is essentially to blend 2s added together.
Now, what I care about right now is a blend two.
So we have a blend two right here, which will work fine and I'm sure give us a space by pressing here
and move around a bit.
Now, there's some more animations I want to do.
We also want to be able to punch and to pick up.
So on there, bring those animations in over here.
Let's bring in an animation called Punch and Click Here.
It's like punch with my output over.
And another one down here, which is gonna be called pickup.
And that's going to be working.
Now, we are never going to have to punch or fire and pick up the same time, I'm using the punch animation
as a firing animation.
So what I'm going to do is I'm a break this connection and we'll make a blend.
Three.
Remember, I will never be able to pick up and fire at the same time, so I'm going to bring this as
my negative blend.
This is my positive blend and this is my in them.
And I connect here and I look at the screen again where Karmi an idol, I can move this anywhere in
there and that's what's gonna be going into the node.
Then I can move like that.
And you see how there is a halfway point between these, right.
So we can we can slowly move between them.
That's what we care about.
All of these parameters can be accessed in code.
And to do that, we need to know these parameters.
As we make more BLENDE nodes, they'll come in here and we can see the properties and like a mouse over
them and see parameter blende three BLENDE amount or blend to blend three terrible names.
I want to rename them Move.
And action state.
Yeah, I guess this is kind of a mini state cabinet.
Zoom out a little bit sexy.
I'm doing.
We now have a very simple animation tree that's gonna work well for our game.
All of a possible animation.
States are in there and we can speed up, slow down, run along and then move down to pick things up,
shoot and so on.
So all of that's going to work nicely for me.
There's a lot more we can do here.
For instance, we could speed up this fiery animation with a time scale.
And if I just zoom in a bit second here, I'm doing I could bring that into here.
Speed it up by factor to bring it out.
But this is different how we always tweak it later.
So let's save that.
I come out of here and we need all character templates, we go from player to its parent scene over
here.
I've just realized I've left that in the wrong state.
So let's head back in animation tree and just move you to zero and two zero.
Great idol is our Idol animation.
Let's leave the character in Idol, OK?
We have our character here.
I was wrong.
We don't need a character.
When I do, this, NPC is what happens to play.
So here's our player script.
We each control these animations in script.
So let's begin by jumping in here.
I'm going to make a brand new function called Animate and Animate is going to figure out when it needs
to do things.
So let's jump all the way down and make a function called animate and give ourselves lots of room.
Awesome.
OK, wiggly running animate every physics.
But there's information I want to hold between frames.
Right.
We need to move from one animation to another.
I need to know where we are.
Which means I want some instance variables, specifically all variables and constants.
I need a brand new variable.
Hello.
Cat is Kathy's coming to join us.
And I'm gonna call this movement state and that's going be set to zero.
So what's this?
This is how far along are we between Idol and Move?
So we still make a quick note.
Idol is zero.
Run is one.
OK.
We also want some some constants.
I'm gonna make a constant in capitals called minimum blende speed, and I'm gonna make this at zero
point one to five.
This is going to be what's our minimum movement speed before we start blending.
So minimum movement threshold before we start blending animations.
All right.
Two more things I need.
I need the speed of which we moved to the right animation and the speed at which we move the island
nation.
These are constants and it's a blend to run.
I feel like we should speed up pretty slowly.
We can tweak these.
But from my experience, I think zero point zero seven five is a good number and we need a constant
for BLENDE to idle.
And let's put that zero points one just to see what it looks like.
Okay, back down to animation.
Okay.
First thing to do.
Should we be idle or should we be moving?
So to do this.
For the moment, I'm going to use motion times.
Speed dot link.
Now I have to multiply those by speed because our motion is between zero and one.
Right.
That's just.
Are we moving in these directions?
So multiply my speed is going to give us our actual speed.
So if motion high speed dot length.
So the length of that vector.
How far have we travelled in any possible direction in this frame is greater than min blend speed.
If so, then movement state is going to add blende to run.
OK, so we'll start at zero and every frame, we're gonna add zero point zero seven five.
Otherwise.
The movement state is going to subtract, lend to idle loops, not negative one blend to idle.
Now, clearly, we need to stay between zero one.
We're getting some really odd effect.
So let's say a movement state is equal to the clamped value of movement states.
Between zero and one.
OK.
So far, so good.
Now let's actually use this.
So we need a new variable, which is gonna be called animation, and that's going to be our animation
tree.
So let's go get our animation tree.
And now we need to set the animation to do this.
We're gonna call the animation tree like so.
And then we're going to use the parameter, which is going to come many square brackets as if it was
an array.
So let's bring that up and let's open the armature so we can see what we're doing.
And remind ourselves that we want the move one and we're going to use this blend amount.
So we want parameters.
Move.
Blend them out.
Now, unfortunate.
Copy paste that.
But it's going to look back into my script here.
Let's just go.
It's going to look like this.
I need to use it as a string parameters.
Move.
Blend.
Amount.
And that is going to equal the movement state.
Let's just double check, I've got that right to come out of here.
We know we don't need the animation tree.
We don't need any of this windows.
Just bring it down so it's normal size and close it.
There we go.
Mouse over it and see that we have this right parameters.
Move the capital m blend amount.
That's looking good.
All right.
Now, if you've done this correctly, we can jump into the game.
And look at that.
Now, I have noticed we're facing the wrong direction.
Let's quickly fix that before we go any further.
So face forward.
I've got pie divided by two.
I think I should in pie multiply by two, don't I?
Let's take a quick look.
This.
You see that very subtle thing.
We can make sure we can notice that by, let's say, footedness, zero point zero one and zero point
fellas put zero point zero zero one.
This is way too low for what we need.
But.
You see how he's very slowly picking up speed.
Clearly way too slow.
What we need.
So let's bring those back to where they were.
Let's put you at zero point zero one to see what that looks like and build some speed.
It's Casca to me, artists.
You see that, so he stops.
He slowly blends down.
Now, that's too slow.
But zero point one feels pretty good.
Or if you prefer, zero point zero five.
You can change these between scenes, but they're constants, which means we're not changing the runtime.
And that is our animation tree.
Now, when we add in more facts and we change how the movement and camera works, we're going to have
to tweak exactly how this function works.
But this is the way.
These are the basics.
This is not the basics.
This is the basic idea.
These are the basics.
And I think that's a really good place to stop.
So excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.